quotes.md, before:

# Quotes

A collection of quotes I like. Divided by [Software], [Life], and [Dutch].

[Software]: #software
[Life]: #life
[Dutch]: #dutch

## Software

> duplication is far cheaper than the wrong abstraction
> -  Sandi Metz — https://www.sandimetz.com/blog/2016/1/20/the-wrong-abstraction

> People who are really serious about software, should make their own hardware.
> - Alan Key

> Work expands so as to fill the time available for its completion.
> - Cyril Parkinson

> Good design makes people happy, but feature count makes people pay
> - Bret Victor — http://worrydream.com/MagicInk/

> Magic is only good if it decomposes into sane primitives
> - Tom Dale

> By the time you are ready to hit the ground, I'll have stitched together a parachute
> - Alan Cooper — [The Inmates Are Running the Asylum](https://amzn.to/2C6BlEy)

> good design only exists within limitations.
> — Art Lebedev — http://www.artlebedev.com/mandership/175/

> Computer programming is tremendous fun. Like music, it is a skill that derives from an unknown blend of innate talent and constant practice. Like drawing, it can be shaped to a variety of ends – commercial, artistic, and pure entertainment. Programmers have a well-deserved reputation for working long hours, but are rarely credited with being driven by creative fevers. Programmers talk about software development on weekends, vacations, and over meals not because they lack imagination, but because their imagination reveals worlds that others cannot see.
> — [Thinking in C#](https://amzn.to/2EphNyj) — Larry O'Brien and Bruce Eckel

> Most software today is very much like an Egyptian pyramid with millions of bricks piled on top of each other, with no structural integrity, but just done by brute force and thousands of slaves.
> — Alan Kay

> Every animation is a trade-off between providing context and your users productivity. 
> - Me

> Because it is the rewards of the process that will keep you energized and moving forward
> - Kim Scott — Radical Candor

> Our very attempts to stave off disaster by introducing safety systems ultimately increase the overall complexity of the systems, ensuring that some unpredictable outcome will rear its ugly head no matter what.
> - Erik Larson — [When Making Things Better Only Makes Them Worse](https://www.theatlantic.com/ideas/archive/2019/04/why-accidents-like-notre-dame-fire-happen/587956/)

> The trick is to fix the problem you have, rather than the problem you want.
> - Bram Cohen

> for each desired change, make the change easy (warning: this may be hard), then make the easy change
> - Kent Beck — https://twitter.com/KentBeck/status/250733358307500032

## Life

> The old has to die for the new to prosper — Steve Jobs

> Insult, like many such feelings, is experienced in the soul of the person addressed; it is not something that can be granted or withheld by the person doing the addressing.
> - Iain M. Banks — [Surface Detail](https://amzn.to/2A3KBIr)

> Never attribute to malice that which can be adequately explained by neglect.
> - Hanlon’s Razor — https://fs.blog/2017/04/mental-model-hanlons-razor/

> Never argue with an idiot. He'll drag you down to his level and beat you with experience .
> – Greg King

> We will find a way. Or make one.
> - Hannibal Barca, 247 BC – 182 BC

> The price this powerful country is paying for living in fear is the price of its civil liberties 
> - Elena Lappin — https://www.theguardian.com/world/2004/jun/05/usa.weekend7

> The benefit of controlling a modern state is less the power to persecute the innocent, more the power to protect the guilty.
> - David Frum — https://www.theatlantic.com/magazine/archive/2017/03/how-to-build-an-autocracy/513872/

> If you're offered a seat on a rocket ship, don't ask what seat, just get on
> - Sheryl Sandberg

> Free time is mostly devoted to getting ready for work, going to work, returning from work, and recovering from work.
> - http://www.primitivism.com/abolition.htm

> If you really want to do something you'll find a way. If you don't you'll find an excuse. 
> - Jim Rohn

> Don’t wait until you feel like doing something.
> — http://www.oliverburkeman.com/blog/posts/the-one-sentence-solution-to-almost-all-procrastination-no-really

> Great minds discuss ideas; average minds discuss events; small minds discuss people.
— Eleanor Roosevelt (who simplified it from others)

> Never commit to memory what can be easily looked up in books
> - Albert Einstein

> Become an expert at the rules. Then break them with creativity and style
> - Kristine Kathryn Rusch

>  A man can fail many times, but he isn’t a failure until he begins to blame somebody else.
> - John Burroughs

> You wouldn't worry so much about what others think of you if you realized how seldom they do.
> ― Eleanor Roosevelt

> Never be content to do something just because it‚ is the way you did it yesterday.
> - Sean Platt — http://zenhabits.net/2009/05/creative-inspiration-the-pulse-that-beats-within-us-all/

> It’s a tool of thought and a vehicle of culture. It’s a window to the past and a bridge to the future.
> - Maeve (about writting language) — http://www.dailywritingtips.com/why-bother-about-correctness/

We don’t stop playing because we grow old; we grow old because we stop playing.
> - George Bernard Shaw — http://zenhabits.net/2009/08/work-as-play/

> Work and play are words used to describe the same thing under differing conditions.
- Mark Twain — http://zenhabits.net/2009/08/work-as-play/

> The best way to predict the future is to invent it.
> — Alan Kay

> in Europe, public services are for the public — meaning everyone — whereas in the US, public services are for those who can’t afford a private alternative
> — Jen Dziura — https://medium.com/p/a5e5f4e9132f

> Learning and education aren’t the same.
> - Steve Corona — http://stevecorona.com/6-things-i-learned-sleeping-on-the-floor-for-a-year

> Advanced western civilization has had a destructive effect on all primitive civilizations it has come into contact with, even in those cases where every attempt was made to protect and guard the primitive civilization. I don’t see any reason why the same thing would not happen to us.
> - Gerard O’Neill

> The silent miracle of human progress is too slow and too fragmented to ever qualify as news. 
> - Hans Rosling — https://www.theguardian.com/world/commentisfree/2018/apr/11/good-news-at-last-the-world-isnt-as-horrific-as-you-think

> I have found that all ugly things are made by those who strive to make something beautiful, and that all beautiful things are made by those who strive to make something useful.
> - Oscar Wilde

> The whole problem with the world is that fools and fanatics are always so certain of themselves and wise people so full of doubts.
> – Bertrand Russell

## Dutch

> Nieuws produceert, op z’n best, seriële en kortstondige verontwaardiging - een dagelijkse dosis ‘what the fuck’ die al gauw weer wegebt tot de volgende nieuwscyclus zich aandient.
> - Arjen van der Horst — https://decorrespondent.nl/6103/zo-verslaan-we-donald-trumps-aanval-op-de-democratie/59564694112-0f82cfc8

Commit message:

Add Kent Beck quote on making small changes

quotes.md, after:

# Quotes

A collection of quotes I like. Divided by [Software], [Life], and [Dutch].

[Software]: #software
[Life]: #life
[Dutch]: #dutch

## Software

> duplication is far cheaper than the wrong abstraction
> -  Sandi Metz — https://www.sandimetz.com/blog/2016/1/20/the-wrong-abstraction

> People who are really serious about software, should make their own hardware.
> - Alan Key

> Work expands so as to fill the time available for its completion.
> - Cyril Parkinson

> Good design makes people happy, but feature count makes people pay
> - Bret Victor — http://worrydream.com/MagicInk/

> Magic is only good if it decomposes into sane primitives
> - Tom Dale

> By the time you are ready to hit the ground, I'll have stitched together a parachute
> - Alan Cooper — [The Inmates Are Running the Asylum](https://amzn.to/2C6BlEy)

> good design only exists within limitations.
> — Art Lebedev — http://www.artlebedev.com/mandership/175/

> Computer programming is tremendous fun. Like music, it is a skill that derives from an unknown blend of innate talent and constant practice. Like drawing, it can be shaped to a variety of ends – commercial, artistic, and pure entertainment. Programmers have a well-deserved reputation for working long hours, but are rarely credited with being driven by creative fevers. Programmers talk about software development on weekends, vacations, and over meals not because they lack imagination, but because their imagination reveals worlds that others cannot see.
> — [Thinking in C#](https://amzn.to/2EphNyj) — Larry O'Brien and Bruce Eckel

> Most software today is very much like an Egyptian pyramid with millions of bricks piled on top of each other, with no structural integrity, but just done by brute force and thousands of slaves.
> — Alan Kay

> Every animation is a trade-off between providing context and your users productivity. 
> - Me

> Because it is the rewards of the process that will keep you energized and moving forward
> - Kim Scott — Radical Candor

> Our very attempts to stave off disaster by introducing safety systems ultimately increase the overall complexity of the systems, ensuring that some unpredictable outcome will rear its ugly head no matter what.
> - Erik Larson — [When Making Things Better Only Makes Them Worse](https://www.theatlantic.com/ideas/archive/2019/04/why-accidents-like-notre-dame-fire-happen/587956/)

> The trick is to fix the problem you have, rather than the problem you want.
> - Bram Cohen

> for each desired change, make the change easy (warning: this may be hard), then make the easy change
> - Kent Beck — https://twitter.com/KentBeck/status/250733358307500032

## Life

> The old has to die for the new to prosper — Steve Jobs

> Insult, like many such feelings, is experienced in the soul of the person addressed; it is not something that can be granted or withheld by the person doing the addressing.
> - Iain M. Banks — [Surface Detail](https://amzn.to/2A3KBIr)

> Never attribute to malice that which can be adequately explained by neglect.
> - Hanlon’s Razor — https://fs.blog/2017/04/mental-model-hanlons-razor/

> Never argue with an idiot. He'll drag you down to his level and beat you with experience .
> – Greg King

> We will find a way. Or make one.
> - Hannibal Barca, 247 BC – 182 BC

> The price this powerful country is paying for living in fear is the price of its civil liberties 
> - Elena Lappin — https://www.theguardian.com/world/2004/jun/05/usa.weekend7

> The benefit of controlling a modern state is less the power to persecute the innocent, more the power to protect the guilty.
> - David Frum — https://www.theatlantic.com/magazine/archive/2017/03/how-to-build-an-autocracy/513872/

> If you're offered a seat on a rocket ship, don't ask what seat, just get on
> - Sheryl Sandberg

> Free time is mostly devoted to getting ready for work, going to work, returning from work, and recovering from work.
> - http://www.primitivism.com/abolition.htm

> If you really want to do something you'll find a way. If you don't you'll find an excuse. 
> - Jim Rohn

> Don’t wait until you feel like doing something.
> — http://www.oliverburkeman.com/blog/posts/the-one-sentence-solution-to-almost-all-procrastination-no-really

> Great minds discuss ideas; average minds discuss events; small minds discuss people.
— Eleanor Roosevelt (who simplified it from others)

> Never commit to memory what can be easily looked up in books
> - Albert Einstein

> Become an expert at the rules. Then break them with creativity and style
> - Kristine Kathryn Rusch

>  A man can fail many times, but he isn’t a failure until he begins to blame somebody else.
> - John Burroughs

> You wouldn't worry so much about what others think of you if you realized how seldom they do.
> ― Eleanor Roosevelt

> Never be content to do something just because it‚ is the way you did it yesterday.
> - Sean Platt — http://zenhabits.net/2009/05/creative-inspiration-the-pulse-that-beats-within-us-all/

> It’s a tool of thought and a vehicle of culture. It’s a window to the past and a bridge to the future.
> - Maeve (about writting language) — http://www.dailywritingtips.com/why-bother-about-correctness/

We don’t stop playing because we grow old; we grow old because we stop playing.
> - George Bernard Shaw — http://zenhabits.net/2009/08/work-as-play/

> Work and play are words used to describe the same thing under differing conditions.
- Mark Twain — http://zenhabits.net/2009/08/work-as-play/

> The best way to predict the future is to invent it.
> — Alan Kay

> in Europe, public services are for the public — meaning everyone — whereas in the US, public services are for those who can’t afford a private alternative
> — Jen Dziura — https://medium.com/p/a5e5f4e9132f

> Learning and education aren’t the same.
> - Steve Corona — http://stevecorona.com/6-things-i-learned-sleeping-on-the-floor-for-a-year

> Advanced western civilization has had a destructive effect on all primitive civilizations it has come into contact with, even in those cases where every attempt was made to protect and guard the primitive civilization. I don’t see any reason why the same thing would not happen to us.
> - Gerard O’Neill

> The silent miracle of human progress is too slow and too fragmented to ever qualify as news. 
> - Hans Rosling — https://www.theguardian.com/world/commentisfree/2018/apr/11/good-news-at-last-the-world-isnt-as-horrific-as-you-think

> I have found that all ugly things are made by those who strive to make something beautiful, and that all beautiful things are made by those who strive to make something useful.
> - Oscar Wilde

> The whole problem with the world is that fools and fanatics are always so certain of themselves and wise people so full of doubts.
> – Bertrand Russell

> Tidying creates cohesion & also information. The information is why to work in small steps. Make a step, ship it, learn something, and then make the next step. Don't wait to ship until you've learned everything because you'll wait forever.
> A cost of this strategy is you have to deal with half-completed migrations. It's that or big merges.
> - Kent Beck - https://twitter.com/KentBeck/status/1255911188065468416

## Dutch

> Nieuws produceert, op z’n best, seriële en kortstondige verontwaardiging - een dagelijkse dosis ‘what the fuck’ die al gauw weer wegebt tot de volgende nieuwscyclus zich aandient.
> - Arjen van der Horst — https://decorrespondent.nl/6103/zo-verslaan-we-donald-trumps-aanval-op-de-democratie/59564694112-0f82cfc8
